[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Thank you all for
having me.
I appreciate everyone here in person and
also all of you online from
all parts over the world.
Thank you for being here.
It is an honor to be back.
I always joke that,
because I travel speaking and teaching for
a living, so I always joke that
I can judge a city based upon the weather
that they provide to me when I visit.
So I showed up last night to the cold and
rain,
but I appreciate Minneapolis
hosting me a second time.
Marc's right, I was here about a year and
a half ago for a web performance workshop.
So I'm well familiar with this space and
glad to be back.
Marc runs a fantastic workshop series.
Like I said, I go all over the world and
I hear just random people at a conference
somewhere in a different part of the world
talking about a video they saw from this.
So, you guys are incredibly
lucky to be part of that.
I encourage you to continue to do so,
continue to spread the word.
I'm very pleased to be
also helping with that.
As a slight side not on that
particular web performance workshop,
I'm slightly embarrassed by it, although
I think there's lot's of great content.
But that actually happened to be the very
first workshop that I ever taught,
long form workshop,
I had done plenty of speaking before.
But Marc kind of gave me
my start in teaching and
I didn't even really know at the time.
He kind of contacted me out of
the blue and said I've seen you speak,
what would you think about teaching?
I had kind of a bent toward teaching but
I'd never really done it in this
industry and so I was excited to kind of
try it out and see, and
I was insanely nervous the night before,
not knowing if I had too much content or
not enough content.
I had no idea really what I was doing,
but he gave me a shot.
Kind of an unknown in terms
of speaking and teaching.
And, I didn't know at the time, but
that launched the career that I now have.
I now do this full time and
I appreciate Marc for giving me my start.
So, it's good to be back here.
I'm Kyle Simpson known as getify online.
If you're into that online stalking thing,
you can check out all kinds of links to
where to find me, and provide feedback,
whether that be questions, whether it be
telling me that I said something
that you completely disagree with.
That's totally okay.
But getify.me has links to
all kinds of things about me.
As I mentioned before what I spend my
full time doing, and I say full time
kind of with some air quotes, because I
don't actually work full time at it but
it is the only thing that I do
that I pay my bills with so
I call it my full time job,
and that's teaching.
And that involves corporate teaching.
So the number of big companies that
I travel all over to do teaching for
the intels and things like that.
I also do public workshops at
a lot of places when I go and
do, when I'm in some city for
a conference.
I just did a public workshop
a few weeks ago while in London.
I know some of you that are online
who are part of that process as well,
so welcome to you there in London.
So, I teach for a living now,
and just as a little plug for
that, if anything that
I say is interesting,
if you find this stuff interesting and
useful, I encourage you to go back and
talk with your companies, talk with your
meetup groups, things like that, anybody.
And, if you're, I'm available for hire,
so I can travel anywhere to teach.
So I'd love to do that if that
would be helpful to you for
your company or your group.
The other part of my time that I spend, so
I spend about maybe 50 to 75% of my time
doing that, but the other part of my time
I spend on what I call community building,
and this involves a variety
of open source activities.
Open source development.
Writing on the books,
which we'll get to in just a moment.
Speaking at conferences.
Running meetups and things like that.
So, my goal is,
it's an all boats rise with the tide.
My goal is to build awareness about the
web platform and about its technologies so
that more people are aware of it,
more people appreciate it.
And by the way, the word appreciate
doesn't necessarily mean like
it just means to respect, to understand,
to realize the usefulness of.
So my goal, I'm an independent, but
I'm sort of an open web evangelist.
My goal is to go everywhere and try to
evangelize what the open web platform can
do and
try to help people learn that better.
And I feel like the more people that
appreciate that technology the more
opportunities that'll give me to teach.
So to that end, some of the time that I
spend I do quite a bit of open source
development on a whole variety of
things if you check out my GitHub.
Just mention a couple of real
quick projects that I work on, so
LABjs is probably the one
I'm probably most known for.
LABjs is a dynamic script loader,
it's coming up on five years old now, so
it's actually getting to be rather ancient
in terms of open source technology.
But probably its most important
feature is its stability,
because it's almost three years since
the last time it had to be changed.
Now, I know many of you know about open
source projects that every couple of weeks
they're releasing another patch and
adding a new feature and
things like that, but I consider stability
to be its most important feature,
because it has been battle-tested,
it's been hardened,
it does exactly what it's supposed to do,
no more no less and it continues.
Now I maintain the project in
terms of if there are bugs or
things like that, I get people
posting issues from time to time and
we track them down and
it turns out it's not actually a bug.
But if there was one we
would certainly do that.
It's been in use by big
companies like the Zappos and
Twitters and Vimeos of the world.
So you can trust that it has
been put to the wringer.
It's just a really low-level
simple script loader.
It's not at a higher level in
terms of dependency management,
things like require, that have
lots of complicated configuration.
It's nothing of that nature.
It's just, load some scripts,
get them done as fast as possible, and
ensure the execution orders or
dependencies are met.
[COUGH] Now why would I even bring
up a script loader these days?
Because A,
we have these dependency managers, and
that's what everybody in
the world seems to be using.
And B, we all know that the simplest and
easiest way to get all your scripts loaded
is to just concatenate
everything in the build process.
Right?
So why would I even talk
about a script loader?
Why would LABjs even matter?
I have a prediction.
I don't know if it'll be true, but
I have a prediction that we're gonna see
a renaissance in script loader technology.
It's kind of fallen by the wayside.
It doesn't get a lot of attention these
days, but we're seeing a switch in our
platform technology and
that is the advent of HTTP 2.0, or HTTP 2.
And that's not quite like IPV 6, where
people have been talking about it for
a decade and yeah, yeah, yeah,
maybe someday we'll actually get IPV 6.
HTTP 2 is a reality.
It's already happened in all of
the browsers that you're using,
probably already you're supporting it.
A number of the big web services out on
the web, they're already serving up over
HTTP 2 if your browser's capable
of it in the right circumstances.
And why would I bring that up,
what's the big difference about it?
Well, it turns out that with HTTP2
everything that we learned about
optimizing our web page load performance
to reduce the number of files,
combining everything, combining
all our Java Script into one file,
all our CSS, all our images into sprites,
everything that we learned there,
turns out that's the worst possible
thing you can do in HTTP 2.
Because the HTTP 2 protocol is
a persistent socket protocol,
much like Web Sockets.
It establishes one handshake and
then it interleaves bits and bytes and
interleaves the files and
downloads everything in parallel.
So if you have one giant file
you can't really do that, and
you wanna have as many small chunks and
small files as you can.
So, we've all spent the better
part of the last five years
building out hundreds of tiny little AMD
files and we've got these build processes
that are putting them all into one big
file and shipping that out to the browser.
I predict over the next year or two we're
gonna see, people are gonna still have
hundreds of little files and how are they
gonna load these things when they have
to switch to loading them all at separate
resources, rather than as one and
I predict that we'll see a renaissance
of script loading technology,
we will try to figure that out.
And I also predict that LABjs will just be
patiently waiting in the corner if anybody
wants to check that out.
So you can take a look at LABjs if you
wanna look at performance script loading.
Grips is a templating engine that
I wrote couple of years ago.
I've been kind of tinkering on it for
a while.
Now, it's not cuz there's not 1000
other templating engines out there.
There certainly are.
But there are some problems that I've
seen in the front end templating world.
So I kind of group templating
engines into two extremes.
On one end of the spectrum we have
templating engines which are extremely,
what they called logic-less.
Extremely stripped-down,
as little logic or no logic as possible.
Many of you are probably familiar
with Mustache and variants thereof.
They call themselves logic-less templates
or sort of zero-logic templates.
And the idea behind that is, we don't
wanna put business logic inside of our
templates, so let's make a templating
engine that has no logic.
Ergo we've solved our problem cuz you
can't put logic inside of the template.
And the spirit of that is great, obviously
I totally agree with the idea of keeping
the separation of concerns, keeping our
business logic out of the templates.
In practice, however, I've tried
using those in production systems.
And in practice what I find out, what I
find is that there's an an awful lot of
tinkering with the data, massaging it
to just be just right inside of our
controllers, because there's very little
flexibility in the front end layer, so
we have to massage
the data to be just right.
Sometimes we have to pollute our data
model with what we call presentational
data, so if you wanna loop over the months
of the year to put in a drop down,
we have to stick that data along
side of your data model and
ship that off into your template.
Because the expressiveness
of the templating engine
restricts you from doing
that sort of thing.
So unfortunately, while we were trying
to create a separation of concerns
between our controller and
our view we ended up creating this
really brittle tie between the two.
And you have to really understand your
view to write your controller, and
you have to really understand your
controller while you're writing your view
and vice versa.
So the theory is great, but
the practice somewhat lacks.
And that's a common theme in a lot
of things in web technology world.
On the other end of the spectrum,
from logicless templates,
we have this idea that says well,
I do need to do some logic, so
why don't we just use a standard
language that everybody knows.
Let's just throw a whole programming
language inside of the templating engine.
As a base example of that,
PHP is a templating engine with the PHP
programming language
embedded inside of it.
Other examples that you may be
more familiar with, dust, and
handlebars and other things like that.
They have the full JavaScript language or
the full Ruby language or
something like that as your
expressiveness inside of your templates.
And I liken that to me
handing you pile a rope, and
I can say I can either teach you, with
this pile of rope, to build a rope bridge,
which is quite helpful, or I can teach you
to build a noose and that's not quite so
helpful, at least in some circumstances.
And the problem is that under the pressure
that says your boss is breathing down you
neck and says, hey you've got ten
minutes to get this thing in there.
We need some logic around this thing so
that it hides under certain circumstances.
When you have the ability to put
an IF statement inside of your
templating engine, and your boss says
you've got to get this done, and
that's the expedient way to do it,
we put an IF statement there.
And then maybe we make ourselves a comment
that says come back, our famous to do fix
this kind of comment, come back and fix
this, which we know we're never actually
gonna come back and do, but the spirit
of it is great, we wanna fix it.
And then six months later, it's not even
you, it's someone else on your team,
the boss is breathing down
their neck saying, hey,
there's another condition now that needs
to be wrapped, so then they go in and
put in and some other condition, and they
call out to some other controller method.
And before long, you see that you have
business logic leaked into your templates.
And the pressure behind
the expediency says,
just do what's quick and
then theoretically we'll come back.
I have this book that I wanna write
someday called The Myth of the Refactor.
We all like to think that we're
gonna refactor things in practice.
There's millions of lines of code
being written every day, and
most of those lines of code will never
be seen again by another human being.
And that's kind of a sobering
fact to think about, but
it's kind of a reality that we deal with.
So, there's this tension between no logic,
too much logic, and where is the middle.
It's kind of like the Goldie Locks.
Could there be somewhere in the middle
that satisfies the needs, but
doesn't give us too much?
And my experiment in that is
the grips templating engine.
It's a restrained templating engine syntax
that gives you the power to do what
you should be doing, and it restricts you
from doing the things that I think you
shouldn't be doing, like making
method calls and doing arithmetic and
other sorts of business
combinatorial logic.
So, you can check out that,
if that's at all interesting in terms of
the pain points that you've looked at.
One other little note about grips is
that another experiment that I am
working on right now is a CSS templating
engine built on top of grips.
Now, many of you are familiar with CSS
pre-processors like LESS and SASS and
things like that.
And with CSS pre-processors we get
the ability to sort of pre-process
our CSS files,
use variables and includes and
other things like that, but
it's like it got halfway and
then it just sorta stopped in terms
of the evolution of the technology.
We got pre-processors and
then we just said,
well the only thing that we need to
innovate on is coming up with new,
inventive syntax to stuff
inside of our style sheets.
And I think we missed the boat because I
think CSS templating, which treats it as
a separate process that you're compiling a
template from when you're rending it, and
it externalizes your data in the exact
same way in which we think about our
HTML templates,
we can think about our CSS as templates,
so I'm experimenting with CSS templating.
I think it's a lot more powerful
than just CSS preprocessing and
I've built that as
a module on top of grips.
So if any of that's interesting,
you can check out grips.
And finally I won't spend any time talking
about this because at the end of today
we'll talk about this, but Asynquence
is a promises like a asynchronous flow
control library,
that are really tiny, less than 2k,
to give you the power to express sort of
promises like syntax for asynchronicity.